Okay so moving along with our development
process, now we're at step five of enhancing a product list
component to read the category ID parameter.
So lets move down to our components,
and we'll move down to a product list component.ts.
And zoom out real quick and expand this window.
And one thing I like to do is just clean
up some of the extra stuff that I have here.
So, lines eight and nine we have these template URL's,
that we're really not using.
Lets go ahead and delete those and just get rid of them,
because right now we're focusing on the template URL
that uses our product listing grid,
so we'll keep that.
Okay, so moving in to our product list component
lets add a new property here for current category ID.
And we'll also inject the current route
or will inject the activated route.
Source a private route and I give
the type of activated route.
So that's the current active route
that loaded the component.
It's useful for accessing the route parameters,
because we need that for accessing the given category ID.
So on my NGN, on the net,
I'll make small modification to simply do a subscribe
on the paramMap for this given route.
And now it's simply moved down to the list products method.
I'll write a quick comment
here as far as the code that I need to write.
So I'll check to see if the ID parameter
is available, just so I know if I can use that value,
or if I need to make use of a default value.
So here I set up a Boolean hash category ID.
I make use of this .route.snapshot.paramMap
has. This returns true or false
if this given parameter is available.
So it's swinging and break it down here,
so we use the activated route.
The state of the route at this given moment in time,
paramMap is the map of all the route parameters,
and we read the given ID parameter.
If it's available it turns true, if not it turns false.
And remember it's going to come in on that link,
so category / one, so that's the actual ID,
based on our route configuration,
so, the colon ID that gives that actual
parameter that given name.
And now if it has the category ID, then we simply
need to read that category ID and convert it to a number.
So here I make the assignment, I'll say;
this.currentcategoryid=+,
and the plus is for the conversion.
This.route.snapshot.paramMap.get
the actual ID.
And again remember the parameter values
returned as a string, so we use the plus
symbol to convert to a number.
And then remember earlier I said;
You know our component will actually
give a default value so, if the category ID
is not available then we'll simply default
to category ID of one,
and this is the logic that we're adding
to our given component.
We could set the default value to anything,
but in this case I'll just use category one.
All right, so that looks good as far as reading
the category ID from the route paramMap or just defaulting.
Now I need to actually get the products
for this given category ID.
So I'll need to make some updates to my product
service, I'll say get product list and I'll pass
in this.currentcategoryId.
So say; hey, service give me products for this given
ID, now right now we don't have this method
that takes a parameter.
So, we'll actually have to fix this,
or enhance this.
So at the moment I'll simply go into this product
service and I'll update this method to accept
the parameter for number.
So I'm in my product service here,
and I will say the category ID
colon number,
but now we still don't know how we'll actually
do that on the backend.
I'll make the call to the backend,
so I'll just put little to do statement here.
Just a little reminder to myself,
that I have more work to do.
And so basically, I need to build a URL based
on the given category I'd that's passed in,
and call the appropriate spring boot app URL,
but I'll actually come back to this later.
Once I figure out what the actual
URL is for the spring boot app.
So now swinging back to our product list component.
That's where I'm at right now.
Just scrolling down, so that's taken care of.
So get product list, passing in the category ID.
Now it knows about this given method parameter.
There's still some work to do,
but at least the code compiles so far.